Name: Madhav Goyal
ID: 2011981262
Section: A1
Batch: 2021

Here are the barriers I and my non-native English speaking friends faced that hindered our ability to communicate effectively in English:

	Grammatical Rules:
		Pronouns in English don't vary based on respect or age. Languages like Hindi and Punjabi have varying pronouns based on age or respect one likes to give the other person. I specifically struggled with addressing my father in English as I always used the word "they" or "them" to address him respectfully and got corrected by my English teacher telling me to use the word "you" and I kept wondering why my teacher didn't want me to respect him.
		Also, English doesn't have genders for objects while Hindi and many other languages do and it felt weird not having that in English.
	
	Fluency:
		It's hard to stay fluent while speaking English due to a lack of confidence and fear of speaking something grammatically wrong.

	Diction:
		Diction or the choice of words has always been a thing of struggle among us as every little difference in similar meaning words could make a difference in the tone and connotation of the entire speech or writing and sometimes led to the wrong message being conveyed to the other person.

	Stuttering:
		When my diction wasn't good and I wasn't fluent enough I found myself stuttering and using filler words like "you know", "like" and "um" which gave an impression of low credibility and low confidence, and of course, poor speaking skills.
		
	Vocabulary:
		Vocabulary is never perfect as one can always come across a word or two every day whose meanings they would not know and have to look for. Despite always being on the lookout to learn the meanings of every new word I come across I still found myself stumbling across many new words in regular English conversations every now and then and thus being unable to understand them. Finding the right words to convey my message while in a conversation is also a big struggle to this day.
	
	Lack of Confidence:
		Lack of confidence is one barrier that correlates with all others because it affects and gets affected by all of them. Not being fluent enough, not knowing the right words to say, or not knowing the meaning of some word somebody said, all lead to a lack of confidence which reflects back at all the barriers.